README.md, before:

Testing Framework for Lua - Mocka [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/adobe/mocka.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/adobe/mocka) 
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/adobe/mocka/badge.svg?branch=HEAD)](https://coveralls.io/github/adobe/mocka?branch=HEAD) 
------

The one lua testing framework that mocks classes, runs with real classes from
your project, has nginx embeded methods for openresty individual testing. Has a suite
of libraries preinstalled and you can specify libraries to install.

Mocka runs better in docker than in standalone - all you need to do is pull
the image and run it like so


Table of contents
----
1. [Installing](#installing)
2. [Usage inside test classes](#ussage-inside-test-classes)
    1. [Mocking](#mock---mocking)
        - [Alter mock behaviour](#alter-mock-behaviour)
    2. [Running and skipping tests](#test-and-xtest---running-and-skipping)
        - [Running a test](#running-a-test)
        - [Running a test with exception](#running-a-test-that-throws-exception-or-you-know-it-will-fail)
        - [Skipping a test](#skipping-a-test)
    3. [Assertions](#assertions)
        - [assertEquals](#assertequals)
        - [assertNotEquals](#assertnotequals)
        - [assertNil](#assertnil)
        - [assertNotNil](#assertnotnil)
        - [Verify a mock has been called](#calls---verify-a-mock-has-been-called)
3. [Dependencies](#dependencies)
4. [Contributing](https://github.com/adobe/mocka/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
        

## Installing
- `sudo luarocks make mocka-1.0-1.rockspec`
- `sudo luarocks install luacov`

__Optional__:
- `sudo luarocks install luacov-coveralls`
- `lua -lluacov run_tests.lua`
- `luacov`
- `luacov-cobertura -o coverage_report.xml`

Sugest using:
 
__GitHub Pull Request Coverage Status__ and __Cobertura Plugin__


## Usage inside test classes

### spy(...) - spying and stubbing

Spy whatever classes you want. Spies are reset after each test. And loose
whatever stubbing you did. That is why if any stub is needed than it should be
declared at beforeEach level. T2 is a global required field in this example - required
somewhere else.

Stubs treat even the async nature of nginx - ran on demand

```
    beforeEach(function()
        spy("test2", "run", function()
            print "Ok"
        end)
    end)
    test('it is', function()
        t2:run()
        calls(spy("test2").run, 1)
    end)
```

### mock(...) - Mocking

Mock whatever methods you want. Mocks are reset after each test. And loose
whatever stubbing you did. That is why if any stub is needed than it should be
declared at beforeEach level or test level.

``` 
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class", {"method1", "method2"})
```

or mock all the methods dynamic

```
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class")
```

#### Alter mock behaviour

``` 
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class", {"method1", "method2"})
    when(classToMock).method1.fake(function(arg1, arg2)
        return arg1
    end)
```

or

```
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class", {"method1", "method2"})
    when(classToMock).method1.doReturn = function(arg1, arg2)
            return arg1
    end
```

or

```
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class", {"method1", "method2"})
    classToMock.__method1.doReturn = function(arg1, arg2)
        return arg1
    end
```

The only method that you don't want to alter if you mock is the __new__ function.

### test(...) and xtest(...) - Running and Skipping

#### Running a test
```
    test('describe what you are testing', function()
        assertEquals(true, true)
    end)
```


#### Running a test that throws exception or you know it will fail
```
    test('describe what you are testing', function()
        assertEquals(true, false)
    end, true)
```

#### Skipping a test
```
    xtest('describe what you are testing', function()
        assertEquals(true, true)
    end)
```

### Assertions

#### assertEquals 


```
    assertEquals(true, true)
```

```
    local one_object = {
        one = 1,
        two = 2
    }
    local second_object = {
        two = 2,
        one = 1
    }
    
    assertEquals(one_object, second_object)
```

```
    assertEqualse("string", "string")
```

```
    assertEquals(1,1)
```

```
    local first_array = {1, 2, 3}
    local second_array = {1, 2, 3}
    assertEquals(first_array, second_array)
```

#### assertNotEquals

```
    local first_array = {1, 2, 3}
    local second_array = {2, 1, 3}
    assertNotEquals(first_array, second_array)
```

#### assertNil

```
    assertNil(x)
```

#### assertNotNil

```
    local x = "string"
    assertNotNil(x)
```

#### calls(...) - verify a mock has been called

```
    local classToMock = mock("class", {"method"})
    calls(classToMock.__method, 1)
```

```
    local classToMock = mock("class", {"method"})
    calls(classToMock.__method, 1, arg2, arg1)
```

## Dependencies

This dependencies apply for docker

- [luacov-cobertura](https://github.com/britzl/luacov-cobertura) - MIT
- [luacheck](https://github.com/mpeterv/luacheck) - MIT
- [ldoc](https://stevedonovan.github.io/ldoc/)
- [jsonpath](https://github.com/mrpace2/lua-jsonpath) - MIT
- [lua-cjson](https://github.com/mpx/lua-cjson) - MIT
- [luabitop](http://bitop.luajit.org/index.html) - MIT
- [lua-resty-iputils](https://github.com/hamishforbes/lua-resty-iputils) - MIT

Commit message:

release candidate (#75)
* AfterEach plus clean mocks and spies (#52)

* afterEach support

* mocks and spies reset after each test

* resetting after each test

* no more pushing dockers

* removed unnecessary file

* more logging

* trace is irelevant

* better rockspecs

* running inside ngx context

* better encapsulation

* better encapsulation

* refactoring code

* better ref of isNgx

* correct clear test

* remake spies after test

* separation between unit tests and integration tests

* remove tag (#54)

* debug require will not mock (#56)

* new version + fallback (#58)

* [#60] Fix the running of tests to show errors as well (#62)

* push fix for errors and failures

* new version and coverage

* removed unused variable

* removed win32 distros

* Added list output for integration tests; refactored output for integration tests to separate module; bumped version

* Feature 1/ui dashboard (#69)

* update dashboard

* updated ui

* transition on hover

* better padding

* animation

* better search view

* better design

* better alignment

* more UI

* better UI

* clickable logo

* debugger level

* fix syntax error (#71)

* [#72] Feature/mocka standalone (#73)

* make global command mocka

* add readme notes

* argparse separately for testing purposes

* mocka does not work on 5.3

* enforce lua deps

README.md, after:

Testing Framework for Lua - Mocka [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/adobe/mocka.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/adobe/mocka) 
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/adobe/mocka/badge.svg?branch=HEAD)](https://coveralls.io/github/adobe/mocka?branch=HEAD) 
------

The one lua testing framework that mocks classes, runs with real classes from
your project, has nginx embedded methods for openresty individual testing. Has a suite
of libraries preinstalled and you can specify libraries to install.

Mocka runs better in docker than in standalone - all you need to do is pull
the image and run it like so


Table of contents
----
1. [Installing](#installing)
2. [Running](#running)
3. [Usage inside test classes](#ussage-inside-test-classes)
    1. [Mocking](#mock---mocking)
        - [Alter mock behaviour](#alter-mock-behaviour)
    2. [Running and skipping tests](#test-and-xtest---running-and-skipping)
        - [Running a test](#running-a-test)
        - [Running a test with exception](#running-a-test-that-throws-exception-or-you-know-it-will-fail)
        - [Skipping a test](#skipping-a-test)
    3. [Assertions](#assertions)
        - [assertEquals](#assertequals)
        - [assertNotEquals](#assertnotequals)
        - [assertNil](#assertnil)
        - [assertNotNil](#assertnotnil)
        - [Verify a mock has been called](#calls---verify-a-mock-has-been-called)
4. [Dependencies](#dependencies)
5. [Contributing](https://github.com/adobe/mocka/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
        

## Installing
- `sudo luarocks make mocka-1.0-1.rockspec`
- `sudo luarocks install luacov`

__Optional__:
- `lua -lluacov run_tests.lua`
- `luacov`
- `luacov-cobertura -o coverage_report.xml`

Suggest using:
 
__GitHub Pull Request Coverage Status__ and __Cobertura Plugin__


## Running

- `mocka <path_to_file>` - run a test file written in mocka framework style
- `mocka -t <path_to_file>` - run a test file written in mocka framework style (you can pass multiple -t files and the command will run all)

If you need coverage report in a human readable form:

``` 
   luacov
   luacov-cobertura -o coverage_report.xml
```

## Usage inside test classes

### spy(...) - spying and stubbing

Spy whatever classes you want. Spies are reset after each test. And loose
whatever stubbing you did. That is why if any stub is needed than it should be
declared at beforeEach level. T2 is a global required field in this example - required
somewhere else.

Stubs treat even the async nature of nginx - ran on demand

```
    beforeEach(function()
        spy("test2", "run", function()
            print "Ok"
        end)
    end)
    test('it is', function()
        t2:run()
        calls(spy("test2").run, 1)
    end)
```

### mock(...) - Mocking

Mock whatever methods you want. Mocks are reset after each test. And loose
whatever stubbing you did. That is why if any stub is needed than it should be
declared at beforeEach level or test level.

``` 
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class", {"method1", "method2"})
```

or mock all the methods dynamic

```
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class")
```

#### Alter mock behaviour

``` 
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class", {"method1", "method2"})
    when(classToMock).method1.fake(function(arg1, arg2)
        return arg1
    end)
```

or

```
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class", {"method1", "method2"})
    when(classToMock).method1.doReturn = function(arg1, arg2)
            return arg1
    end
```

or

```
    local classToMock = mock("path.to.class", {"method1", "method2"})
    classToMock.__method1.doReturn = function(arg1, arg2)
        return arg1
    end
```

The only method that you don't want to alter if you mock is the __new__ function.

### test(...) and xtest(...) - Running and Skipping

#### Running a test
```
    test('describe what you are testing', function()
        assertEquals(true, true)
    end)
```


#### Running a test that throws exception or you know it will fail
```
    test('describe what you are testing', function()
        assertEquals(true, false)
    end, true)
```

#### Skipping a test
```
    xtest('describe what you are testing', function()
        assertEquals(true, true)
    end)
```

### Assertions

#### assertEquals 


```
    assertEquals(true, true)
```

```
    local one_object = {
        one = 1,
        two = 2
    }
    local second_object = {
        two = 2,
        one = 1
    }
    
    assertEquals(one_object, second_object)
```

```
    assertEqualse("string", "string")
```

```
    assertEquals(1,1)
```

```
    local first_array = {1, 2, 3}
    local second_array = {1, 2, 3}
    assertEquals(first_array, second_array)
```

#### assertNotEquals

```
    local first_array = {1, 2, 3}
    local second_array = {2, 1, 3}
    assertNotEquals(first_array, second_array)
```

#### assertNil

```
    assertNil(x)
```

#### assertNotNil

```
    local x = "string"
    assertNotNil(x)
```

#### calls(...) - verify a mock has been called

```
    local classToMock = mock("class", {"method"})
    calls(classToMock.__method, 1)
```

```
    local classToMock = mock("class", {"method"})
    calls(classToMock.__method, 1, arg2, arg1)
```

## Dependencies

This dependencies apply for docker

- [luacov-cobertura](https://github.com/britzl/luacov-cobertura) - MIT
- [luacheck](https://github.com/mpeterv/luacheck) - MIT
- [ldoc](https://stevedonovan.github.io/ldoc/)
- [jsonpath](https://github.com/mrpace2/lua-jsonpath) - MIT
- [lua-cjson](https://github.com/mpx/lua-cjson) - MIT
- [luabitop](http://bitop.luajit.org/index.html) - MIT
- [lua-resty-iputils](https://github.com/hamishforbes/lua-resty-iputils) - MIT
